CNN's Salma Abdelaziz
joining us now with the latest.
Salma, Gaza's hospital are facing
the hospitals there.
They're facing severe shortages.
And, of course, there's
no fuel on these aid trucks.
What more can you tell us
about the aid that's coming in
and how that is going to play out?
I think it's crucial
we put this aid into context.
We understand from local officials
that these 20 trucks are 3%, just
3% of what was normally coming in
on a single day
in Gaza
before this crisis
even began in
these trucks have to distribute
this aid as airstrikes continue
to rain down without.
Fuel to put.
Into these trucks.
And they're feeling this huge gap,
this huge deficit.
Hospitals are running out of medicine.
Kids are drinking seawater
because there's no clean drinking water.
The humanitarian crisis is just huge.
I want to
I want you to take a look
at the situation on the ground.
I do warn you, these images are graphic.
As these aid convoys enter Gaza.
Hospitals in Gaza are crumbling.
Everything is running out
from surgical equipment to medicine
and the tiniest lives are left
hanging in the balance.
Of their lives.
We need power.
We need access to clean water.
This doctor says without basic services,
this will be a humanitarian catastrophe.
Already, seven hospitals and 21
primary health care facilities
here are out of service,
according to Palestinian officials,
because of shortages
after intense diplomatic efforts.
Prayers of relief
at the Rafah border
crossing
as a trickle of aid
was allowed in from Egypt.
But the tow truck convoy is only a drop
in the ocean
of need here, equivalent to just 3%
of what
entered this enclave
daily prior to the conflict.
More than 200
additional trucks of assistance
remain stalled on the Egyptian side,
according to the U.N..
And every hour costs lives.
And so
far, no civilians
can leave beyond Cleeve.
Ten year
old Palestinian American Aiden
is among those trapped.
And we have no place to go.
All the streets are bombed.
There they're literally gone.
How are we. Supposed to go out?
And how it's all closed.
Even if people are allowed out,
it will be a limited number.
Most likely only those
with foreign passports.
Sealing some 2 million
others, half of them children,
into this hellscape.
But some refuse to go,
even if they could.
Fearing Israel intends to bomb
and besiege them out of their homes,
never to return.
Even as Mahmoud buries his children,
he says he will keep fighting
just to exist here.
Sorry.
We will still be patient.
As long as we are alive on this earth,
we will be patient, he says.
We will never leave this land.
After the October 7th terror
attacks, when Hamas killed
more than 1400 people in Israel
in a brutal surprise
incursion, Israel
vowed to wipe out Hamas.
But with hundreds of airstrikes
pounding the densely populated
enclave a day,
innocent blood is being spilled.
Innocent children were struck down
while they were sleeping.
This woman shouts.
What did they do?
Did they carry weapons?
These are innocent children
who know nothing.
Tell us, when will this end?
There are calls for a cease
fire to get civilians
out of the war
zone and allow more aid into Gaza.
But the pleas fall on deaf ears so far.
Israel is preparing for the next phase
of its operations,
a potential ground incursion
that can only bring more suffering.
And when we talk about this
trickle of aid,
I also want you to think about
just how much it required
to get such a small amount of help
into the enclave.
President Biden was directly involved
in these negotiations.
There was intense
diplomatic efforts,
a flurry between Egypt
and Israel
in the United States
to just bring in this tiny amount of help
that, again,
aid workers
say is going to be used up immediately.
And we're looking at
a humanitarian crisis
that isn't just unfolding on the ground,
but is actually being expanded,
added to intensified hour
by hour by those airstrikes
that continue to push.
Wounded people, displaced people.
Into places
where shelters are overwhelmed.
Hospitals are overwhelmed,
that the fear here is that
this is simply not enough
and there could not be enough
coming in the days in the days ahead.
Some Abdul-Aziz
with the reporting for us.
Thank you so much.
Joining us
now is Cindy McCain,
executive director of World Food Program
and former ambassador
to the UN Agencies
for Food and Agriculture.
Ambassador McCain,
thank you for your time.
I want to fill out
the picture of perspective,
what was sent in on these first 20 trucks
compared to what is needed.
So fill that out for us if you could.
Well,
first of all,
thank you for having me
and thank you
for talking about this issue.
I witnessed the container,
all the trucks for medical supplies.
Of course,
we took in food, water taken in.
And as we said,
it was a very small amount.
Is 20.
As for this
convoy, convoys like this to be sustained
and to be safe
and continue to run
and continue to go into the country,
this is a catastrophe
going on on the ground there.
People are starving to death.
There's no water, as you know.
There's no electricity. There's no fuel.
This this is ripe for disease
and much, much more.
So I'm really pleading with the world
community to please get in here and help.
Ambassador, as you've heard
from some of our reporters,
especially Clarissa Ward,
who's been there on the ground
near the crossing,
I mean, she's been saying
this is just a drop in the ocean
because you have 28 trucks coming in.
Compare that to 450 trucks
that have been coming in
every single day into Gaza.
What is the World Food Program?
What are you doing to
I guess, what kind of conversations
are you having to
to open a sustained
humanitarian corridor?
Well, I have talked to
everybody involved that I can find,
and that includes the secretary general
as well as our
our other folks
with our various partner agencies around.
This is something
that has got to be sustained and saved
and, of course, has to be
it has to be much more of it.
This cannot be the only
or the last convoy that simply can't be.
So I'm looking to I'm
helping the leadership
in various countries around this around
this can help us.
I help remind the world
that we need to get in here
to help
those who cannot help themselves
and are about to starve to death.
What are you hearing from
your partners there in Gaza?
Understand that there were
dozens of bakeries
that the World Food Program
partnered with,
and now there are just a couple
that are operational.
Give us some context on the
the capabilities.
Once supplies reach people there,
what they can do with it.
Right.
Well, first of all, we
Djibouti was already in Palestine
and we were already in the area.
And so so we are people are still there.
So what does this mean?
We have the capability
and have
logistics ability
to bring in large
quantities of food, etc..
But right now, what's left on the ground,
as you know,
many of the bakeries were bombed.
Many of them just don't have supplies.
And the ones that are operational
are have very minimal ability
to do just that.
We are bringing in emergency food rations
right now.
This is
this is food
that people can eat immediately,
Do not have to cook.
Sure,
we can sustain themselves
a little bit longer
until we can get the longer
lasting items that they need in there.
But once again, 20 trucks will not do it.
We need as as
Clarissa said, there are 400
some trucks going every day.
We need those 407
trucks filled with food
to go in every day.
All right.
And in terms of
your message to the people on the ground,
because logistically, I mean,
I wonder how this is going to work.
Right?
28 trucks coming in.
There's way more need than that.
How do you know how the people on
the ground are going to prioritize
who gets what?
Well,
in the case of World Food Program,
we we that's what we do.
We prioritize.
We know where it needs to go.
We know where the where the people are.
Also staying with regard
to hospitals, community centers,
where they've been, where they fled to.
So we're going to make sure
that the food gets right
where it's supposed to go
and that it makes it
to the correct people.
Let's be very clear about that.
We have the kind of capabilities
to track and trace our food.
And more importantly,
we are able to on the ground
make sure that our beneficiaries
are the real beneficiaries
that should be getting the food.
So we're going to do everything
we can to make sure it goes right
where it's supposed to go.
And that's what he's good at.
We're good at logistics.
We're good at this.
And so that's why
we we're the largest organization.
That's why we continue
to do the kind of work that we do.
Most of most Americans
first met you
when your late husband,
Senator John McCain,
was running for president.
He was the Republican nominee in 2008.
One of the candidates
for the nomination this time around.
Florida Governor Ron
DeSantis has said that
not a single dollar of U.S.
aid should go into Gaza.
I wonder what your reaction to that is.
Listen, it's not just Gaza.
This problem is worldwide.
We have the Sahel. We have Sudan.
We have
hundreds of thousands of refugees,
millions fleeing into Chad.
This is not a problem
that's solely in Gaza. This is worldwide.
So to say somehow
you're not going to give aid to anybody
is is just cruel.
There are people starving to death.
And the United States
always steps up is always
the first and we're always the largest
because that's who we are as Americans.
So I would challenge Mr.
DeSantis on that, on that topic.
Well, thank you for taking time out
on a very busy day.
Appreciate the work you do,
Ambassador Sidney McCain, Thank you.